---
title: My story
date: 2019-12-07
weight: "50"
type: page
menu:
  main:
    weight: 5

---
# My story

I am a GP, Rapid Transformational Therapist and a Hypnotherapist. I continue to work as a GP in the NHS in North Cornwall in the Southwest of England. I trained as a doctor at the University of Wales College of Medicine, in Cardiff, and went on to train as a GP in the Southwest of England, initially being based in Plymouth. During my GP training I had my family of 3 children, and once training was completed I moved to the North coast of Cornwall. For 10 years I was based as a GP working in Boscastle and Tintagel. I have been trained in Rapid Transformational Therapy (RTT) and Hypnotherapy by Marisa Peer, the hypnotherapist who developed RTT. I have recently decided to work more flexibly as a GP in different practices in North Cornwall, whilst providing RTT and Hypnotherapy privately at present. My goal is to develop further research and provide evidence about RTT as an extremely effective treatment option for many illnesses that conventional medicine cannot treat. I would like to see RTT used as an alternative to medication when appropriate, as medication can have side effects including addiction and tolerance. It would be wonderful to offer RTT on the NHS in the future, so watch this space…

I am fortunate to be in a position where I can help people understand and identify why they are unwell and can provide them with a variety of treatment options to help them on their road to recovery but as a GP I started to become frustrated by the limitations of conventional medicine. I knew that a pill wasn’t going to fix the problems many of my patients faced in the long term. Conventional medicine is very useful in treating many areas of ill health, but conventional medicine doesn’t always have the answers. Increasing numbers of patients were struggling with chronic pain, fibromyalgia, depression, anxiety, insomnia, irritable bowel, the list goes on… and despite being given medications and talking therapy on the NHS, most were stuck in a rut and felt that they were not getting a solution to their problems.

We live in a culture that places our well-being very low down in the list of priorities. There are a vast number of illnesses that arise due to stress. Some of that stress is caused by previous life events and traumas that have happened to us. Psychotherapies available on the NHS are limited, they take time to work and often do not get to the root cause of the problem. I became acutely aware that patients were not improving by using NHS provisions. I saw that frustration was brewing and ill health was developing because patients were not being provided with the correct tools or resources to understand and be free from their illnesses.

Just when I was despairing and at my wits end I had the fortunate opportunity to meet a GP who had already trained in hypnotherapy and was amazed at the benefits of having hypnosis. This GP told me his story about suffering with Bells palsy. Bells palsy affects the facial muscles on one side of the face, causing disfigurement and difficulty speaking. In his case this didn’t resolve with time or conventional medicine, but resolved during hypnosis and has remained so since his hypnotherapy. This had such an impact on him and he decided to train in hypnotherapy himself, and became an advocate for it.

On meeting this GP at a training event I experienced hypnotherapy myself. After only one short introductory session I felt full of energy but also tranquillity and positivity, I had to find out more. This experience in itself transformed the way I thought about health and well-being, and since then I have trained as a Hypnotherapist myself. I have since seen how effective it is in treating many issues and illnesses, and have used RTT to treat tics, migraines, IBS, insomnia, tinnitus and PTSD. Please see my testimonials to get a flavour of how well this therapy works.

## My personal experience

Personally I have suffered with anxiety, self-doubt and postnatal depression. This has had a huge impact on myself and my family. With the help of RTT I now realise that my anxiety, lack of self-esteem and postnatal depression occurred due to thoughts and limiting beliefs I had developed at a young age, that surfaced later in life. I struggled with anxiety and lack of confidence for most of my life, and used to think it was a personality trait of mine. I suffered with severe postnatal depression after my 3rd child, which was triggered by increasing anxiety during the pregnancy. On the outside it looked as though I had everything I remember at the time thinking I would never get better. I felt very alone. Medication did help with postnatal depression, but anxiety lingered. I persevered and through yoga and meditation I made positive progress. However, it wasn’t until I came across hypnotherapy that I completely understood where the anxiety had originated from, and that this wasn’t a personality trait. I hadn’t been born with this anxiety, it was something I had started to believe at a young age due to events that I had experienced. This understanding gave me the power to transform these unhelpful limiting beliefs and I now the feel full of positive expectation. Through hypnosis I have come to understand that my previous lack of self-belief started when I was a new born. As a baby I had interpreted the disappointment of my parents for me not being a boy into the belief that I was not good enough. Through RTT I have now changed this wrongly held belief, and have incredible increasing self-belief. RTT has enabled me to understand the root cause of my anxiety and re-frame it, helping me to find freedom.

I no longer doubt myself. I have taken huge leaps of faith and changed the way I work. I know everything is possible for me, and I’m excited to be able to truly facilitate healing in others. Our minds and bodies are incredible. Neuroplasticity / reprogramming your brain is a scientific fact, and it can be harnessed during RTT to make rapid and life changing transformations.